[sub-PR] Split readme into various steps at /docs + updated info on bootstrap (#1668)
sparkletown/sparkle: docs/bootstrap-application.md

# Sparkle Web App

Codebase for the Sparkle platform, brought to you by [Sparkle](https://sparklespaces.com/), a platform for the most immersive & interactive virtual events.

> 

Author: removed f6618f8

### Connect your application to Firebase

<!-- section 1 -->

> ## 'Bootstrap' the platform

Author: not sure what you mean, but we have bootstrap-application doc linked in the firebase setup doc, so that should be fine

Make sure that you're located in ./scripts folder.

First of all you'd need to boostrap an environment using the following command:

> * Run the bootstrap script `./bootstrap-new-environment.ts TODO-PROJECT-ID [PRIVATE-KEY-FILE].json`

Author: yep, sure

As a result you should be able to see the 'Bootstraping complete' message

> <!--<!-- ![image](./images/creating-new-environments/57-bootstrap-complete.png) --> -->

Author: replaced all images with result text/code blocks 025e814

> Then we'll be able to add a user to your application:

Author: done 025e814

```
⇒ ./create-users.ts [PRIVATE-KEY-FILE].json user@sparkle.space

User created: email=user@sparkle.space, password=REDACTED

> 

Author: done 025e814

```

We seem to need to manually create the `roles` collection in firestore, with a single `admin` document, that contains the following fields:

* `allowAll` (boolean): `false`

> * `users` (array of strings): either an empty array (`[]`), or adding the user uid's copied from Firebase Authentication for the users who need to be admins.

Author: removed 025e814

**Note:** you also need to be added to the `owners` field on a venue to be able to edit it. The `roles` collection just controls whether you're able to access the admin panel at all.

<!-- ![image](./images/creating-new-environments/53-roles-collection.png) -->

Once complete you should be able to make that user an admin. To do so run this command:

> * `./update-admin-role-users.ts [PRIVATE-KEY-FILE].json ADD user@sparkle.space`

Author: reformatted in 025e814

As a result you'll see this message:

> <!-- ![image](./images/creating-new-environments/58-user-admin-role.png) -->

Reviewer: When showing the messages from script output, lets stick to showing it in text within a code block rather than images

Author: done to all the images 025e814

<!-- section 2 -->

> 

Author: done 025e814

## Configure ENV file

> In order for your application to connect to the proper Firebase environment you'd need to set up .env.local config. Please follow steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for your application to connect to the proper Firebase environment you'd need to set up `.env.local` config. Please follow steps below:
```

Author: done 025e814

* Locate or create .env.local file inside project root folder
* Paste the following config
`
REACT_APP_PROJECT_ID=
REACT_APP_API_KEY=
REACT_APP_APP_ID=
REACT_APP_MEASUREMENT_ID=
REACT_APP_BUCKET_URL=

> `

Reviewer: Triple backticks code block

Author: done 025e814

> Here's a list of places where you can find the config values:
> * REACT_APP_PROJECT_ID, REACT_APP_APP_ID and REACT_APP_API_KEY can be found in Firebase - Project Settings - General tab
> * REACT_APP_MEASUREMENT_ID can be found at https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web. You can search for Measurement ID in the search bar at the top of the page
> * REACT_APP_BUCKET_URL con ofsists REACT_APP_PROJECT_ID and equals REACT_APP_PROJECT_ID.appspot.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all of these values in the Firebase - Project Settings - General tab.
```

Author: agree to remove everything except the measurement_id, that one cannot be located at firebase, so let's leave that info here

Author: 025e814

Once you've populated ENV file with correct data, please proceed to the next step.

> 
> <!-- section 3 -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done 025e814

## Deploy local Firestore rules

* Please run `npx firebase deploy --only firestore:rules`
It should finish with this message:

> <!-- ![image](./images/creating-new-environments/58-rules-deploy.png) -->

Reviewer: This isn't deploying 'local' firestore rules. It's deploying them to the firebase environment that has been set up and configured.

This is also something that shouldn't be needed to be done here, it should be part of the firebase environment setup docs.

Author: moved to env setup in 025e814

In a new terminal, from the directory you cloned the code to, enter the following commands:

```bash
# While not necessary (as we already include it in our devDependencies), you can install the firebase-tools globally if desired
# npm install -g firebase-tools@latest

# Move into the firebase functions directory
cd functions

# Install the function dependencies
npm install

# Go back to the root app directory to use firebase package
cd ..

# Login to firebase with the account that has access to this project
npm run firebase login

# If you are contributing to the Sparkle main code base, switch to the 'staging' project, otherwise switch to 'example-project' or whichever environment you are developing against
npm run firebase use staging

# Copy the runtime config locally
npm run --silent firebase functions:config:get > ./functions/.runtimeconfig.json

# Finally, we need to perform the first deploy to the functions manually, to make sure all of the required cloud API's get enabled/etc, then after that, CI should be able to do it for us going forward:

npm run firebase --project TODO-PROJECT-ID deploy --only functions

> # You may need to run this a couple of times, as it seems to cause various Google cloud APIs to get enabled/etc, which sometimes fail/time out. As a result you should see Deploy complete! message

Reviewer: This part shouldn't be needed here, it's part of the firebase environment setup and should be included in those docs.

Author: 025e814

> Proceed to ./start-application.md to launch your application.

Reviewer: This should be a link if we're going to include it here. But given how many things from this doc seem to need to move to the 'create firebase environment' doc, I wonder if this doc is just going to end up being the 'start application' docs..?

Author: 025e814
this doc still contains info related to bootstrap only & I've separated start application from it
